i12974 - two new docs:... (#737)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/hands-on-guidance/proc_creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample.adoc

[id="creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample_{context}"]
= Creating a workspace from code sample

This section will show how to select a stack from the User Dashboard and start a workspace with its sample code.

It will also explain how to customize a workspace using the User Dashboard.

[NOTE]
====

> Every new devfile based stack should link:https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13529[come with one sample codebase].

Reviewer: I would say "Every stack comes with one sample codebase"

Author: so we're still calling these things "stacks" even if they're now defined by devfiles rather than Dockerfiles?

Reviewer: Yes. As nodeJS + Mongo is a stack. No matter if it's defined with the devfile format or the stacks.json format (that was the format used, not the dockerfile).

Author: Updated copy:

"Every stack comes with one sample codebase, as defined by the stack’s devfile. For more on devfiles, see >Configuring a Che workspace using a Devfile<." (link to http://0.0.0.0:4000/che-7/end-user-tasks.html#configuring-a-che-workspace-using-a-devfile_end-user-tasks )

====

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

* You need an OKD, OCP, or OSD cluster, if using Che on Openshift. See below for use of link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift].
* Or, you need a Kubernetes cluster such as link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube] to use Che on Kubernetes.

[discrete]
== Procedure

=== Accessing Che User Dashboard

The dashboard is accessible on your cluster from a URL like http://`che-instance`.`your.IP.address.here`.nip.io/dashboard/.

> ==== Minishift

Reviewer: How to deploy Che on minishift is already mentioned in the getting started guide (c.f. https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/blob/master/src/main/pages/che-7/overview/proc_running-che-locally.adoc#deploying-single-user-che-on-minikube) and using directly the minishift-addon (without `chectl`) is not recommended. Hence I would rather put a link to the getting started section here.

Author: replaced with link

If you are using link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift], you can use the Che add-on to automatically deploy Che to your Minishift (OKD) instance.

[NOTE]
====
For versions of link:https://github.com/minishift/minishift/releases[Minishift up to 1.34], you need to apply a small change:

```
minishift --profile che addons apply --addon-env PLUGIN__REGISTRY__URL=https://che-plugin-registry.openshift.io/v3 che
```
====

. Next, log into your console at https://`your.IP.address.here`:8443/console/.

. From there, select the mini-che project:

* https://`your.IP.address.here`:8443/console/project/mini-che/overview

. Then click through to the mini-che route link, which will load the dashboard by default and prompt you to create a workspace.

* http://che-mini-che.`your.IP.address.here`.nip.io/

==== OCP and OSD

If using OCP or OSD, talk to your administrator to obtain the URL for the che instance.

=== Selecting a Stack

> Choose a stack from the list. Note that only stacks marked with Che 7 are fully compatible with Che 7 server, but the older Che 6 based ones may still work.

Reviewer: We are not supporting/displaying Che 6 stacks anymore since RC2. All stacks are Che 7 stacks.

Author: Only mention of Che 6 is now this line:

```
. From the *Editors* tab, you can enable/disable workspace editors. 
For example, if you wanted to switch to the Che 6 editor, you could 
select the GWT IDE instead of the Che 7 editor, based on Theia.
```
(in hands-on-guidance/proc_creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample.adoc line 99)

Is that OK? Or should I simplify the explanation there to not mention Che 6?

image::workspaces/select-workpace.png[Select a stack from the list]

=== Reviewing the compute resource limits

> Depending on the type of stack and what you need to do, you may want to allocate more or less RAM to the workspace. The minimum recommended memory is already set.

Reviewer: Allocating the memory is not possible anymore. The memory needed by the stack is pre-calculated and displayed on the stack description line. Changing the memory requirements is only possible from the devfile.

Author: section revised: 

```
=== Viewing the compute resource limits

The memory needed by the stack is pre-calculated and displayed on the stack description line. Changing the memory requirements is only possible xref:#configure-devfile[from the devfile].
```
(from hands-on-guidance/proc_creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample.adoc)

image::workspaces/configure-ram.png[Configure Workpace RAM]

=== Choosing sample project(s)

> Below the list of stacks you can choose which sample project(s) to include in your new workspace. Simply check the boxes next to the project(s) you want to include.

Reviewer: Every stack in Che 7 comes with a default project and the user doesn't need to select it. In your screenshot I can see that you have selected a non devfile based stack (that are deprecated since RC2) and those legacy stacks didn't include a default sample. But new ones do.

Author: I selected the Maven/Java one and it does NOT contain a sample project:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/227597/60403366-27517800-9b6a-11e9-9771-1503426595ed.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/227597/60403357-10ab2100-9b6a-11e9-981b-45703c445888.png)

Reviewer: That's an endgame issue that hasn't been addressed yet https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13665. You can:

1) update the doc pretending that the issue has been fixed and a project is created (you may ask a few screenshots to @ashumilova)
2) don't cover that in the doc yet and add a doc update subtask to the issue above

Author: section removed for now. Subtask added to https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/12974

image::workspaces/choose-sample-project.png[Choose sample project]

Don't forget to click the *Add* button to add the project to the workspace!

image::workspaces/add-sample-project.png[Add project to workspace]

=== Start the workspace

There are two ways to start the workspace:

. simple start: just push the *Create & Open* button at the top or bottom of the form:
+
image::workspaces/create-and-open.png[Create and Open]

. configure workspace further, then start: from the top of the page, click the down arrow next to the *Create & Open* button, then select the menu item below to edit your workspace's configuration.
+
image::workspaces/create-and-edit.png[Create and Edit]

=== Change the workspace configuration

If you chose the second option, you'll be able to configure the workspace's YAML, among other tasks:

> . From the *Overview* tab, you can quickly rename a workspace, if you forgot to do that when creating it. You can also toggle ephemeral mode, or export your workspace config to a file or private cloud. This is also once place where you can delete a workspace.

Reviewer: This is also **one** place

+
image::workspaces/workspace-config-overview.png[Worksapce configuration overview]

. From the *Projects* tab, you can add more projects to an existing workspace:
+
image::workspaces/workspace-config-projects.png[Add projects to workspace]

> . From the *Containers* tab, you can change RAM allocation or add a new container.

Reviewer: There is no container tab for devfile based workspaces. There are no Servers, Env Variables, Volumes, SSH and Config tab neither. There is a Devfile tab instead that allows to edit containers, env variables and volumes.

Author: True:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/227597/60403375-4bad5480-9b6a-11e9-9a90-ff10a29b0c4e.png)

But what's with this empty warning?

Reviewer: This empty warning I guess is a bug https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13673

Author: Contents updated to only mention Overview, Projects, Plugins, Editors, and Devfile.

[id="creating-a-workspace-from-code-sample_{context}"]
= Creating a workspace from code sample

This section will show how to select a stack from the User Dashboard and start a workspace with its sample code.

> It will also explain how to customize a workspace using the User Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes how to select a stack from the *Dashboard* and start a workspace with its sample code. The section also explains how to customize the workspace using the *Dashboard*.
```

Author: if you've started **a** workspace, the later refernce should be to **the** workspace. Thus:

```
This section walks you through steps to select a stack from the *Dashboard*, start a workspace with a sample project, and customizing that workspace using the *Dashboard* .
```
WDYT?

Reviewer 3: @supriya-bharadwaj, no walking :) (and Nick is right about the articles, but the sentence is long and ugly, so we use two sentences -- and then it will be about customizing any workspace, so we'll keep **a**).

Btw, ideally, we would have two sections/procedures -- one about starting a ws, one about customizing a ws.

Reviewer 2: Fixed the articles.

Author: It could be two documents (starting a ws; customizing a ws) but since the most logical workflow for customizing a ws (for a first time user, anyway) is to do so before starting the ws... it makes sense IMHO to have these as a single doc:

* Creating a workspace from code sample

- [ ] Accessing the Dashboard
- [ ] Selecting a stack
- [ ] Start the workspace (Create & Open or Create & Edit)
- [ ] Change the workspace configuration
- [ ] Running a workspace

[NOTE]
====
Every stack comes with one sample codebase, as defined by the stack's devfile. For more on devfiles, see xref:configuring-a-che-workspace-using-a-devfile_{context}[Configuring a Che workspace using a Devfile].

> ====

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every stack has a sample codebase, which is defined in the stack devfile. For more information on devfiles, see xref:configuring-a-che-workspace-using-a-devfile_{context}[Configuring a Che workspace using a devfile].
```

Author: in theory a stack can contain more than one sample project if the devfile is configured that way. 

So "its" sample codebase seems wrong. How about "Every stack as **a** sample codebase..."

[discrete]
== Prerequisites

> * You need an OKD (link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift]), OCP, or OSD cluster, if using Che on Openshift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If using Che on Openshift, you must have an OKD (link:https://www.okd.io/minishift/[Minishift]), OCP, or OSD cluster.
```

> * Or, you need a Kubernetes cluster such as link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube] to use Che on Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If using Che on Kubernetes, you must have a Kubernetes cluster such as link:https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube#installation[Minikube].
```

> * To install on Minishift or Minikube, see xref:che-quick-starts#deploying-che-using-chectl[Deploying Che using chectl].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To install Che on Minishift or Minikube, see xref:che-quick-starts#deploying-che-using-chectl[Deploying Che using chectl].
```

> 

Author: you need a cluster with Che on it before you can create a Che workspace. And the recommended approach is to use chectl. SO... yes, that's a requirement.

Why not direct people to the Che docs instead of the generic "how to use minishift/minkube" docs?

Reviewer 3: +1

@supriya-bharadwaj,

* We have simple docs on installing on Mini[shift|kube], which then link to official Minishift docs, so Nick's link makes more sense.
* The sentence "For Che on OpenShift, an OKD, OCP, or OSD cluster." is not English.

Reviewer 2: Better?

[discrete]
== Procedure

> === Accessing Che User Dashboard

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Accessing the Che Dashboard
```

Author: we're not calling it "User Dashboard" anymore?

Reviewer 2: @nickboldt , I know that the UI item is *Dashboard* (that was the reason for deleting *User* in this case). Isn't that the "Dashboard" that we are referring to here?

Author: It's called "User Dashboard" in Che 6 but I guess we're calling it just "Dashboard" now? I've applied this change in all my new docs.

> The dashboard is accessible on your cluster from a URL like http://`che-instance`.`your.IP.address.here`.nip.io/dashboard/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dashboard is accessible on your cluster from a URL like http://`che-instance`._<your-IP-address>_.nip.io/dashboard/.
```

==== Minishift

See xref:che-quick-starts#deploying-che-using-chectl[Deploying Che using chectl].

[NOTE]
====
For versions of link:https://github.com/minishift/minishift/releases[Minishift up to 1.34], you need to apply a small change:

```
oc set env dc/che CHE_WORKSPACE_PLUGIN__REGISTRY__URL=https://che-plugin-registry.openshift.io/v3
```
====

> . Next, log into your console at https://`your.IP.address.here`:8443/console/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log into the console at https://_<your-IP-address>_:8443/console/.
```

> . From there, select the mini-che project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the mini-che project:
```

> * https://`your.IP.address.here`:8443/console/project/mini-che/overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* https://_<your-IP-address>_:8443/console/project/mini-che/overview
```

> . Then click through to the mini-che route link, which will load the User Dashboard by default and prompt you to create a workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click through to the mini-che route link, which will load the *Dashboard* by default and prompt you to create a workspace.
```

> * http://che-che.`your.IP.address.here`.nip.io/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* http://che-che._<your-IP-address>_.nip.io/
```

> ==== OCP and OSD

Reviewer 2: @nickboldt , can you suggest a more descriptive heading here, please? I could not come up with a suggestion.

> If using OCP or OSD, talk to your administrator to obtain the URL for the che instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using OCP or OSD, obtain the URL for the Che instance from your administrator.
```

=== Selecting a stack

> . When the User Dashboard opens, click the link in the left navigation panel for *Workspaces*, if it's not already open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. When the *Dashboard* opens, click *Workspaces* in the left navigation panel.
```

. Choose a stack from the list.

> . Name your workspace, if you don't like the default-generated name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Name the workspace, or use the default name.
```

image::workspaces/select-workpace.png[Select a stack from the list]

=== Viewing the compute resource limits

The memory needed by the stack is pre-calculated and displayed on the stack description line. Changing the memory requirements is only possible xref:#configure-devfile[from the devfile].

> === Start the workspace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Starting the workspace
```

There are two ways to start the workspace:

> . Simple start: just push the *Create & Open* button at the top or bottom of the form:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click the btn:[Create & Open] button at the top or bottom of the form:
```

+
image::workspaces/create-and-open.png[Create and Open]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OR
```

> . Advanced start: from the top of the page, click the down arrow next to the *Create & Open* button, then select the menu item below to edit your workspace's configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. At the top of the window, click the down arrow next to the btn:[Create & Open] button, then select the menu item below to edit the workspace configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: @nickboldt , should this be: In the *New Workspaces* window, click the down arrow next to the btn:[Create & Open] button, then select the *Create & Proceed Editing* menu option to edit the workspace configuration.

+

> This will allow you to make further configuration before starting the workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will allow you to update the configuration further before starting the workspace.
```

+
image::workspaces/create-and-edit.png[Create and Edit]

> === Change the workspace configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Changing the workspace configuration
```

> If you chose the second option, you'll be able to configure the workspace's YAML, among other tasks:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: To be able to configure the workspace YAML, you must choose to start the workspace using the following option:
In the *New Workspaces* window, click the down arrow next to the btn:[Create & Open] button, then select the *Create & Proceed Editing* menu option to edit the workspace configuration.
```

> . From the *Overview* tab, you can quickly rename a workspace, if you forgot to do that when creating it. You can also toggle ephemeral mode, or export your workspace config to a file or private cloud. This is also one of serveral places from which you can delete a workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Overview* tab:
.. In the *Workspace name* field, name the workspace, if you did not do that when creating it. 
.. Use the toggle *Ephemeral mode* button to attach a PVC to the workspace.
.. In the *Export* field, click the btn:[Export as a file] or the btn:[Export to private cloud] button to export your workspace configuration to a file or a private cloud, respectively.
```

+
image::workspaces/workspace-config-overview.png[Worksapce configuration overview]

// TODO https://github.com/eclipse/che/issues/13665 fix screenshot

> . From the *Projects* tab, you can add more projects to an existing workspace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Projects* tab, add more projects to an existing workspace:
```

+
image::workspaces/workspace-config-projects.png[Add projects to workspace]

> . From the *Plugins* tab, you can enable/disable workspace plugins. For example, you could start with a generic Java-based stack but later add support for Node or Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Plugins* tab, enable or disable workspace plug-ins. For example, start with a generic Java-based stack and later add support for Node or Python.
```

Author: OK, sure, the IBM style guide says it's "plug-ins" but the label on the tab earlier in the sentence, and in the UI, says "plugins". So the style guide is arguably wrong, and should be updated.

> . From the *Editors* tab, you can enable/disable workspace editors. For example, if you wanted to switch to the Che 6 editor, you could select the GWT IDE instead of the Che 7 editor, based on Theia.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Editors* tab, enable or disable workspace editors. For example, if you wanted to switch to the Che 6 editor, select the GWT IDE instead of the Che 7 editor, based on Theia.
```

Author: This is another review for outdated copy.

And you only changed one of several items from "From..." to "In..." so I'll keep them all the same.

```
. From the *Editors* tab, you can enable or disable workspace editors. For example, to switch to the Che 6 editor, select the GWT IDE. The Che 7 editor is based on Theia.
```

[id="configure-devfile"]
[start=5]

> . From the *Devfile* tag, you can edit your workspace's YAML configuration. This is also where you can load a custom container, if you previously built one and pushed it to some container registry.  You can also add commands, sample projects, and more, if you prefer to enter code than to click buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *Devfile* tab, edit the workspace YAML configuration. Here, you can load a custom container if you previously built one and pushed it to a container registry.  You can also add commands and sample projects if you prefer to enter code than to click buttons.
```

Author: Outdated.

```
. From the *Devfile* tab, edit the workspace's YAML configuration. This is also where you can load a custom container, if you previously built one and pushed it to some container registry.  You can also add commands and sample projects, if you prefer to enter code than to click buttons.
```

+
image::workspaces/workspace-config-yaml.png[YAML configuration]

> For example, to add a project into the workspace, add or edit this section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, to add a project into the workspace, add or edit the following section:
```

```
projects:
  - name: che
    source:
      type: git
      location: 'https://github.com/eclipse/che.git'
```

=== Running a workspace

> Once you're satisfied with the configuration, you can run the workspace several different ways:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to run a workspace:
```

> * From the *Run*  button in the top right corner of the Workspace configuration page, which will start the workspace but will NOT switch to it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* From the btn:[Run] button in the top-right corner of the *Workspace configuration* window, which will start the workspace but will not switch to it.
```

> * From the *Open* button in the top right corner of the Workspace configuration page, which will both start the workspace and launch it in your browser

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* From the btn:[Open] button in the top-right corner of the *Workspace configuration* window, which will start the workspace and launch it in your browser.
```

> * From the list of *Recent Workspaces* on the left navigation panel, you can right-click a non-running workspace to start it, or right-click a running workspace to stop it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* From the list of *Recent Workspaces* on the left navigation panel, right-click a non-running workspace to start it, or right-click a running workspace to stop it.
```
